Citizens of the Republic of Armenia having attained the age of eighteen on the day of an election to the National Assembly or on the day of a referendum, shall have the right to elect and the right to participate in the referendum.

Everyone who has attained the age of twenty-five, has held citizenship of only the Republic of Armenia for the preceding four years, has been permanently residing in the Republic for the preceding four years, has the right of suffrage and has command of the Armenian language, may be elected as a Deputy of the National Assembly.

Citizens of the Republic of Armenia having attained the age of eighteen on the day of election or referendum shall have the right to elect and be elected during the elections of local self-government bodies, and the right to participate in a local referendum. The law may prescribe the right of persons not holding citizenship of the Republic of Armenia to take part in the elections of local self-government bodies and in local referenda.

Persons declared, upon civil judgment of the court having entered into legal force, as having no active legal capacity, as well as persons sentenced and those serving the sentence, upon criminal judgment having entered into legal force, for a grave criminal offence committed intentionally shall not be entitled to elect or be elected or participate in a referendum. Persons sentenced and those serving the sentence, upon criminal judgment having entered into legal force, for other criminal offences shall not be entitled to elect as well.

Everyone shall have the right to impartial and fair examination by administrative bodies of a case concerning him or her, within a reasonable time period.

In the course of administrative proceedings everyone shall have the right to get familiar with all documents concerning him or her, except for the secrets guarded by law.

State and local self-government bodies and officials shall be obliged to hear the person prior to the adoption of an interfering individual act thereon, except for the cases prescribed by law.

Everyone shall have the right to receive information and get familiar with documents relating to the activities of state and local self-government bodies and officials.

The right to receive information may be restricted only by law, for the purpose of protecting public interests or the basic rights and freedoms of others.

The procedure for receiving information, as well as the grounds for liability of officials for concealing information or for unjustified refusal of providing information thereby shall be prescribed by law.
